The environment in which a person is brought up in is the most influential and fundamental factor in the development of one’s character. This is the case in Franz Kafka’s novella The Metamorphosis, where Gregor Samsa, the protagonist, grows up in an environment where his family becomes totally dependent on his work without any direct benefit to him; as would a leech. Gregor is forced to live a life of constant work and constant changes which doesn’t allow him to create any real connection with anyone else; but the moment his lifestyle and consistence is altered, his family stops accepting him. The dysfunctional family that Gregor Samsa worked his entire life to support, eventually becomes his demise because of their repulsion towards him, lack of compassion, and alienation. 
When Franz Kafka introduces Gregor Samsa, the reader is immediately presented with the image of Gregor as a hard, tireless worker and quickly learns Gregor has no real connection with anyone because of his profession as a traveling worker. His only real connection is with his family, which is discovered later in the story when the author states Gregor supports them financially, before this, this connection is not easily evident. When Gregor turns into a vermin, his relationship with his family begins to deteriorate. Upon seeing him, his family could not believe their eyes: “his mother… first clasped her hands and looked at his father, then took two steps toward Gregor and fell on the floor among her outspread skirts… His father knotted his fist with a fierce expression on his face as if he meant to knock Gregor back into his room… covered his eyes with his hands and wept” (Kafka, 8). Gregor feels miserable, as the only people he thought he had a connection with, now feel disgusted at the sight of him, resembling a family who isn’t open to changes and marginalizes their own kin. 
The dysfunctional family dynamics that Gregor experiences after his transformation, causes him to live in a state of alienation in his room as he no longer feels accepted anywhere else. Even when his sister takes care of him, the lack of compassion is apparent as she becomes more and more resentful of having such a big responsibility. Just as in real life, where a person suffers an accident that disabilitates him and can no longer do the work at his job or fulfill his responsibilities at home, Gregor appears to be in the same position. In turn, family or co-workers can become insensible, tired, or resentful; as the person is no longer a provider, but a burden. Gregor’s family begins to see him as less important when they realize how much they can accomplish on their own. Eventually, they reach a point where they don’t even care about interacting with Gregor and are just counting the days until he passes away. As soon as Gregor dies, the family feels relieved as they no longer have to carry the weight of him on their shoulders: “They decided to spend this day in resting and going for a stroll; they had not only deserved such a respite from work, but absolutely needed it” (Kafka, 27).
Gregor’s metamorphosis in the novella serves as a perfect example of what can happen in a toxic family environment when a person experiences changes or no longer serves a purpose that benefits the family directly. While he provides, he is loved and cared for but as soon as he stops, his family begins to push him away. The way his family treated him destroyed him. Gregor felt alienated due to his family’s lack of compassion which eventually becomes his demise as he dies feeling alone and unloved. 
